ls- lists the contents of your current working directory.
ls -a :List all files in a Linux directory including hidden (dot) files and directories
ls -l :List files and show permissions, user owner, group owner, last modified/created date
ls -R :List all files, and all the files inside of the directories (or just list the folder recursively)
ls -S : List all files, sorted by file size
ls -d : List all the directories in the given directory
ls -X : Sort in alphabetical order by file extension
ls -h  : Human readable – Size in MB or GB
pwd : present working directory
mkdir : creating a directory
cd : change directory
rmdir : deletion of the current directory
touch : creation of new empty file
cat : creating a file, displaying the file, append the file
rm : rm is used to delete the file
cp : cp is used to copy the one file into other file
mv : mv is used to move the source file into destination file
whoami: gives the current user
head : head is used to display the content of the file from the top. to display top 10 lines
tail : tail also displays the content from the bottom of the file. last 10 lines.
tac: tac is the reverse of cat but displays the content in reverse order
more: more is used to display the screenful content of the file
id : id provides the userid and groupid
su : su provides the administrative access
passwd: The passwd is used to create and change password for the user
useradd : The useradd is used to create the user
groupadd : The groupadd is used to create the groupuser
cut: The cut command is used to get the specific content of the file. 
wc : The wc is used to count the number of lines,words, letters
uniq: The uniq command is used to get the unique content of the file
grep: grep is called the global expression print. It is used for searching a content of the file.
sed : sed is stream  editor. It is used to edit the file content.
tr : tr is used to translate the content from lowercase to uppercase
od : The od command is used to display the content of a file in different s, such as hexadecimal, octal, and ASCII characters.
gzip : The gzip command is used to truncate the file size. It is a compressing tool. It replaces the original file by the compressed file having '.gz' extension.
gunzip : The gunzip command is used to decompress a file. It is a reverse operation of gzip command.
find : The find command is used to find the particular file in the directory.
locate : The locate command is used to search a file by file name. It is quite similar to find command; the difference is that it is a background process. It searches the file in the database, whereas the find command searches in the file system.
date : The date command is used to display date, time, time zone, and more.
 cal     : The cal command is used to display the current month's calendar with the current date highlighted.
 time : The time command is used to display the amount of time taken
 sleep : The sleep command is used to hold the command by specified amount of time.
 zcat : The zcat command is used to display the compressed files.
 df : The df command is used to display the disk space used in the file system.
 mount : The mount command is used to connect an external device file system to the system's file system
 exit : Linux exit command is used to exit from the current shell. It takes a parameter as a number and exits the shell with a return of status number.
clear : It is used to clear the screen
ip : Linux ip command is an updated version of the ipconfig command. It is used to assign an IP address, initialize an interface, disable an interface.
ssh : Linux ssh command is used to create a remote connection through the ssh protocol.
mail : The mail command is used to send emails from the command line.
ping : The ping command is used to check the connectivity between two nodes, that is whether the server is connected. It is a short form of "Packet Internet Groper
host : The host command is used to display the IP address for a given domain name and vice versa. It performs the DNS lookups for the DNS Query.









